AC Pond (#6263)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/silver/ac-pond.mdx

We now focus on how to efficiently test whether such a $K \times K$ square exists. Construct an array $Q$ in which each square $(i, j)$ has $Q_{i, j}=1$ if $A_{i, j} \le M$ and $Q_{i, j}=-1$ otherwise. As shown in the [2D Prefix Sums Module](https://usaco.guide/silver/more-prefix-sums), we can calculate the 2D prefix sums of $Q$, and use it to efficiently determine whether the squares $(i, j)$ satisfying $A_{i, j} \le M$ form a majority within any $K \times K$ region.

Let $P_{i , j}$ denote the sum of entries in the region from $(1, 1)$ to $(i, j)$. Then, the sum for a $K \times K$ region with it's bottom right corner at $(i, j)$ would be

$$
P_{i, j} - P_{i - k, j} - P_{i, j - k} + P_{i - k, j - k}.
$$

Since each entry with value at most $M$ would contribute $1$ and $-1$ otherwise, the sum would represent the number of squares with value less than or equal to $M$ minus the number of squares whose value is greater than $M$ within the region.

> If any $K \times K$ region has a net sum greater than or equal to $0$, the median $M$ exists, and the test was successful. Otherwise, we need to update our binary search to consider larger values of $M$.

Reviewer: I think I already flagged the issue in a previous comment but... it conficted so here it is again.

```suggestion
If any $K \times K$ region has a net sum greater than or equal to $0$, then a median of at most $M$ is possible, and the test was successful. Otherwise, we need to consider larger values of $M$ in our binary search.
```

---
id: ac-pond
source: AC
title: Pond
author: Arnav Gokhale
---

[Official Analysis (C++)](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc203/editorial)

<Spoiler title = "Hint">

> What can be said about the condition that there exists a $K \times K$ region whose [median](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Median) is less than or equal to $M$?

Reviewer 2: im confused what does this hint mean

maybe a more useful hint would be:
- how to find if an array A has a subarray of length K with median <= M

?

---
id: ac-pond
source: AC
title: Pond
author: Arnav Gokhale
---

> [Official Analysis](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc203/editorial)

Reviewer: Link to specific page, also specify language

```suggestion
[Official Analysis (C++)](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc203/editorial/2008)
```

> [Official Analysis](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc203/editorial)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Official Analysis (C++)](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc203/editorial)
```

> [Official Analysis (C++)](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc203/editorial)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Official Analysis (C++)](https://atcoder.jp/contests/abc203/editorial/2008)
```

## Explanation

> To solve this question, we can employ binary search on the answer. For a given value $M$, we ask whether there exists a $K \times K$ region whose median is less than or equal to $M$. Based on the answers to these questions, we can update our binary search range and calculate the lowest median among all parks.

Reviewer 2: i think it may be instructive to add a primer/hint to introduce the idea of using binary search on these types of problems? (e.g. medians)

since this is essentially the same idea as finding the median in an array without using sorting

Reviewer: A more general primer would be to formulate any type of if condition as 0's and 1's to be processed over

This has proved helpful in several places according to personal experience.  I forgot what problem, though...

> We now know focus on how to efficiently test whether such a $K \times K$ square exists. Assign each block $A_{i, j}$ a value of $1$ if $A_{i, j} \le M$ and $0$ otherwise. As shown in the [2D Prefix Sums Module](https://usaco.guide/silver/more-prefix-sums), we can calculate the 2D prefix sums of the constructed array, and use it to efficiently compute the number of squares $A_{i, j} \le M$ within any $K \times K$ region.

Reviewer: 1. Either "We now know to focus" or "We now focus".  I used the latter below.
2. "Block" is used in the official solution to refer to a subgrid/park; square is the canonical term for a single unit in the problem.
3. $(i, j)$ is the square, $A_{i, j}$ is the value.  Always specify the grid as being $(i, j)$ before referring to $A_{i, j}$.
4. Make constructing array explicit (both in specifying the array name and explicitly assigning to it) and just refer to the array name.

```suggestion
We now focus on how to efficiently test whether such a $K \times K$ square exists. Construct an array $Q$ in which each square $(i, j)$ has $Q_{i, j}=1$ if $A_{i, j} \le M$ and $Q_{i, j}=0$ otherwise. As shown in the [2D Prefix Sums Module](https://usaco.guide/silver/more-prefix-sums), we can calculate the 2D prefix sums of $Q$, and use it to efficiently compute the number of squares $(i, j)$ satisfying $A_{i, j} \le M$ within any $K \times K$ region.
```

> Let $P_{i , j}$ denote the number of tiles $(i', j')$ from $(1, 1)$ to $(i, j)$ such that $A_{i', j'} \le M$. Then, for a $K \times K$ region with it's bottom right corner at $(i, j)$, the number of squares whose value is less than or equal to $M$ would be $P_{i, j} - P_{i - k, j} - P_{i, j - k} + P_{i - k, j - k}.$

Reviewer: 1. Make relationship with the constructed array explicit
2. $(i', j')$ suggests a transformation onto $(i,j)$, so use some other letters (done below) or use $(i_1, j_1)$.
3. From a point to a point in 2D space isn't well-defined.  Explicitly specify top-left and bottom-right corner and rectangle.
4. Tighten some stuff.  `with it's bottom right corner at` to `with bottom right corner`
5. Either explain why the formula at the end works ("by 2D prefix sums" below) or drop the entire paragraph and point to module

```suggestion
Let $P$ be the 2D prefix sum array of $Q$, denoting the number of tiles $(r, c)$ in the rectangle with top-left corner $(1, 1)$ and bottom-right corner $(i, j)$ such that $A_{r, c} \le M$. Then, for a $K \times K$ region with bottom right corner $(i, j)$, the number of squares whose value is less than or equal to $M$ would be $P_{i, j} - P_{i - k, j} - P_{i, j - k} + P_{i - k, j - k}$ by 2D prefix sums.
```

> Let $P_{i , j}$ denote the number of tiles $(i', j')$ from $(1, 1)$ to $(i, j)$ such that $A_{i', j'} \le M$. Then, for a $K \times K$ region with it's bottom right corner at $(i, j)$, the number of squares whose value is less than or equal to $M$ would be $P_{i, j} - P_{i - k, j} - P_{i, j - k} + P_{i - k, j - k}.$

Reviewer 2: prob want to link the module first / mention it

> If any $K \times K$ region satisfies the value $\lfloor{\frac{k^2 + 1}{2}}\rfloor$, the median $M$ exists, and the test was succesful. Otherwise, we may need to update our binary search to consider larger values of $M$.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We now focus on how to efficiently test whether such a $K \times K$ square exists. Assign each block $A_{i, j}$ a value of $1$ if $A_{i, j} \le M$ and $0$ otherwise. As shown in the [2D Prefix Sums Module](https://usaco.guide/silver/more-prefix-sums), we can calculate the 2D prefix sums of the constructed grid, and use it to efficiently compute the number of squares $A_{i, j} \le M$ within any $K \times K$ region.

Let $P_{i , j}$ denote the number of tiles $(i', j')$ from $(1, 1)$ to $(i, j)$ such that $A_{i', j'} \le M$. Then, for a $K \times K$ region with it's bottom right corner at $(i, j)$, the number of squares whose value is less than or equal to $M$ would be $P_{i, j} - P_{i - k, j} - P_{i, j - k} + P_{i - k, j - k}.$

If any $K \times K$ region satisfies the value $\lfloor{\frac{k^2 + 1}{2}}\rfloor$, the median $M$ exists, and the test was successful. Otherwise, we may need to update our binary search to consider larger values of $M$.
```

> If any $K \times K$ region satisfies the value $\lfloor{\frac{k^2 + 1}{2}}\rfloor$, the median $M$ exists, and the test was succesful. Otherwise, we may need to update our binary search to consider larger values of $M$.

Reviewer: 1. "satisfies the value" is vague.  Replace it with precise wording.
2. Not neccessarily of $M$, just less than or equal to $M$.
3. Cut jargon is last phrase
```suggestion
If any $K \times K$ region has at least $\lfloor{\frac{k^2 + 1}{2}}\rfloor$ squares smaller than or equal to $M$, then a median of less than or equal to $M$ exists, and the test was successful. Otherwise, we need to consider larger values of $M$.
```

## Implementation

> **Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^2\log[\text{max}(A_{i})])$

Reviewer: 1. People don't use parenthesis after max
2. If you tried no parenthesis and got bad spacing, it's because \text, \mathrm, \operatorname, and \[name of operation] all have subtle differences.  Doing some research will help with your LaTeX.
```suggestion
**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^2\log(\max A_{i}))$
```

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

```cpp

#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
#define int long long
using vi = vector<int>;
using ll = long long;
using str = string;
using pi = array<int, 2>;

> using vb = vector<bool>;

Reviewer: This is getting out of hands a bit too much.  VB reminds me of visual basic... also instead of array<int, 2> pair may be better

#define sz(x) int(x.size())
#define lb lower_bound
#define ub upper_bound

> #define FOR(i, a, b) for (int i = (a); i < (b); i++)

Reviewer: Demacro.

const int MOD = 1000000000;

> const int INF = 1e18;

Reviewer 2: this template is kinda long 😭 prefer to keep it to just

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

const int INF = 1e9;
```

Author: whoops completly forgot I had that mb 😭

> const int INF = 1e18;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
constexpr int MOD = 1e9;
constexpr int INF = 1e18;
```

> void solve() {

Reviewer: Move into main()

	int n, k;
	cin >> n >> k;

	vector<vector<int>> a(n, vector<int>(n));
	vector<vector<int>> p(n + 1, vector<int>(n + 1));

	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		for (int j = 0; j < n; j++) { cin >> a[i][j]; }
	}

	int l = 0, h = 1e9;
	int ans = INF;
	while (l <= h) {
		int m = (l + h) / 2;

		// Constructing the 2D Prefix Array
		for (int i = 1; i <= n; i++) {
			for (int j = 1; j <= n; j++) {
				p[i][j] = p[i - 1][j] + p[i][j - 1] - p[i - 1][j - 1] +

> 				          (a[i - 1][j - 1] <= m);

Reviewer: Explain directly adding the condition (rather than a separate array) either in comments or in explanation

			}
		}

> 		// Calculating K x K regions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		// Enumerating K x K regions
```

> 		bool f = false;

Reviewer: More specific variable name

		for (int i = k; i <= n; i++) {
			for (int j = k; j <= n; j++) {

> 				int vl = p[i][j] - p[i - k][j] - p[i][j - k] + p[i - k][j - k];

Reviewer: More specific variable name

				if (vl >= (k * k + 1) / 2) {
					f = true;
					break;
				}
			}
			if (f) break;
		}

		if (f) {
			ans = min(ans, m);
			h = m - 1;

> 		} else l = m + 1;

Reviewer 2: braces

	}

	cout << ans << '\n';
}

> signed main() {

Reviewer: Why signed?

	ios_base::sync_with_stdio(false);

> 	cin.tie(nullptr);

Reviewer: Unless it's need to pass, cut these.

	solve();
}
```

</CPPSection>

<PySection>

</PySection>

<JavaSection>

> </JavaSection>

Reviewer: If you're not aiming to provide these, cut the tag.
